[THEME MUSIC]
>>DAVID WILCOCK: All right,
welcome to another episode
of "Disclosure."
I'm your host, David Wilcock.
And I am here with
Dr. Pete Peterson.
So Pete, welcome
back to the show.
>>PETE PETERSON:
Thanks a lot, David.
>>DAVID: So I was living
in Virginia Beach from 1997
to about 2002.
And I think it
was in 2000 that I
saw a talk by Gregg Braden,
who has been interviewed
for this network before.
And he was showing some
truly remarkable photographs
from something that was
called the de la Warr camera.
And this was really interesting
because the idea was
that you could take a sample
from a particular life form
and then hit it with some kind--
it was inside some kind of coil.
I believe X-rays may
have been involved.
And photographs were then
made that would apparently
reveal health issues
inside the body,
like photographs of organs.
And then I later went to the
US Psychotronics Association
as an invited speaker.
And I saw a whole seminar
on this de la Warr camera.
And some of the photographs
were very bizarre,
including, apparently, that they
were able to use the de la Warr
camera to photograph an area
where a wedding had taken place
before.
And they were somehow
able to dial in the time
that the wedding happened.
And you actually saw the
wedding in the photograph.
So psychotronics and that
whole subject of radionics,
et cetera, is a huge subject.
And I'm interested to hear
what you know about that.
>>PETERSON: Well, it
was one of those things
that I was called
on to debunk it.
>>DAVID: Oh.
>>PETERSON: And so
I started looking
at the luminaries in that field
and started studying with them
and found out that I didn't
have anything to debunk,
and I had a lot to learn.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>PETERSON: And
as a result, there
are several areas of that field.
The beginning of it
started with Albert Abrams,
who was the head of medical
science at Stanford University.
And--
>>DAVID: That's pretty heavy.
Yeah.
>>PETERSON: Well, very heavy.
And then these days
were the beginning days
of what we call electronics.
And people were
trying various things.
You know, electricity
and electrons
were the magic
words in those days.
So people didn't understand
it, so they tried everything
to see what they
could come up with.
And he came up
with a machine that
could take what they called
a witness from a person.
Now, that's what the de la Warr
camera and the Drown cameras
have done is they took, like,
a fingernail, or an eyebrow,
or a piece of hair.
And then they found out even
a handwriting sample would do.
And they found out that
inherent in these things
were information.
Some 35, 40 years
later, I did my thesis
on what I called the
informational field.
>>DAVID: But what were they
doing with these witnesses?
What was the--
>>PETERSON: What
the witness would do
is allow you to extract
from it virtually any
and all information
from the person
that the witness had come from.
>>DAVID: Information.
>>PETERSON: Medical information,
physical information, disease,
DNA things that they had
DNA positives and negatives
that they had.
You could do medical diagnoses.
You could do
psychological diagnoses.
The cameras came about.
And so you could do a
photograph of a person
merely from their witness.
A person could be clear on
the other side of the world,
and you could get a perfectly
good photograph of them.
>>DAVID: You'd see their
face in the photograph.
>>PETERSON: Oh, yes, see
everything and by everything.
As they got into doing X-rays
and basically what today
we'd call CAT scans or MRIs, you
could see the internal organs.
You could see their condition.
You could set the camera
up so that it would see
things that were hot or cold.
A lot of diseases, you're going
to find heat involved in them.
And so you could
photograph a person
and photograph the
liver, for example,
and see that there
was cancer there.
>>DAVID: If you showed one of
these photographs of a liver
to a doctor who didn't know
how it had been obtained,
what would he think
he was looking at?
Did you have to
interpret it as a liver?
Or did it really
look like a liver?
>>PETERSON: Oh, this is actual
photograph of the liver--
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>PETERSON: --and that
person's liver with the things
that it had right
and wrong with it.
The de la Warrs were a
couple that lived in England
and had gotten into radionics
by learning from Albert Abrams.
And then they started
making machines
and started going beyond the
limitations that Abrams had.
And for years, that
company has made
a whole series of instruments.
One of them, you can take
a hair, or a fingernail,
or a blood spot, or a sputum
spot, a little drop of sputum
on a blotter, put it
in the instrument.
And you can dial in
various just numbers.
And it turns out that you
can just write the numbers,
or you can actually
have an electronic dial,
like the dial for your
volume on your radio
or tuning your radio.
And you could dial
in these numbers,
which they called rates, for
lack of words to use for it.
And from these rates,
then you could sense--
you put a sensor in
line with the device.
And there were different
kinds of sensors.
Some people who were good
at dowsing with a pendulum
would just use a pendulum
held over the device.
Some had a dial.
It had a 0 to 100 scale.
It's like the electronic
dial on a radio,
varies the amount of power.
But on this device, you could
draw a dial and turn it.
And it would act as if
you had the actual device.
So it was really
something that was dealing
with an informational
aspect that we
didn't know of in those ways.
>>DAVID: Well, it seems like
there's a historical precedent
for this kind of
stuff if you think
about Celtic magic involving
where they draw runes.
And those runes are related to
the focusing of consciousness,
or sigils being another example.
>>PETERSON: Exactly.
>>DAVID: So you
could draw a sigil.
And the idea I've heard
about drawing sigils
is that you're focusing
the intent of consciousness
into that illustration.
And that's what gives
it power in some sense.
>>PETERSON: Exactly.
It takes a human.
And let's say, for
lack of words--
the big problem in
this whole field
is a lack of actual words.
So people picked up
words, like so many people
today in what we'll
call new age medicine
talk about frequencies.
And when you ask them
what a frequency is,
they wouldn't have the slightest
idea what "frequency" means.
That's a word with a definition.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>>PETERSON: But it
was used because it
had a lot of the aspects of
what they were talking about.
>>DAVID: Sure.
>>PETERSON: We need
to clarify this,
and we need to make a science.
It is a science.
We need to make a man-known
science out of it.
And I got involved
in that early on
because I liked things
that appeared to be magic
that there must be some
reason behind because you
could get repeatable
results, one after another
after another.
>>DAVID: Could you--
I guess there's really
no way to test this.
But if a pattern
of rocks in nature
happened to fall into
one of these shapes
and no human was
involved, would that
shape itself still have power?
>>PETERSON: Not unless a
human had imbued that power.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: The power comes--
and I hate to use the
word "spiritually,"
but we don't have another
word in the English
that comes close.
But it's informationally.
The person develops information
and imbues that information
to the witness or
to the instrument
itself to represent something.
And over a period of time--
A modern day
researcher in this is
a gentleman by name of Rupert
Sheldrake out of England--
>>DAVID: Sure.
>>PETERSON: --who
is quite well known
for his morphogenetic fields.
And he basically
was a biologist.
So he uses a lot of
biological terms.
But described a lot of things
that happened prior to that
in the area of radionics, which
then became psychotronics.
There is a US
Psychotronics Association.
And in all fields
where there really
isn't a good science behind it,
developed science behind it,
people tend to use words
that they're familiar with,
that are words that they've
heard used by scientists
to make it sound scientific.
>>DAVID: Well, let
me ask you this.
When I went to the US
Psychotronics Association
conference and heard about what
they were calling radionics--
they were still using
that term as well--
some of what I had
heard was that people
would rub their
fingers on a plate
and the perception of
it becoming more sticky
would somehow be an
answer that came,
I guess, from what you
could call their intuition.
>>PETERSON: That's all correct.
And the stick plate is probably
my favorite device to use.
And I have many
scientific devices
that I've designed and
built. And the stick plate
works probably the best.
And Sheldrake found that
the universe had a memory.
And it was lazy.
Once something got
started, it like
to continue with that name,
or that color, or that shape.
And then radionics
in those days,
the plastic that we had
was a phenolic material.
So traditional radionic
machines used phenolic plates.
And you can polish it up
so that it's like plate
glass, and very, very smooth.
And you rub your fingers,
usually more than one,
on this material.
And you have a dial that can be
a dial that's just a drawing,
or it can be a dial that's
actually what, in electronics,
we call a potentiometer.
It's--
>>DAVID: A variable resistor?
>>PETERSON: A variable resistor.
It's a long piece of many cases.
It's a long piece
of carbon material.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: And as
you turn a wiper that
wipes on this semi-circle
of carbon material,
or a circle of carbon material,
the carbon has a resistance.
And you have more
and more and more
resistance as the distance
from a terminal on the device
to a wiper that's
connected to a dial.
So it becomes more, or the
resistance becomes more.
But just something
that increases
in numbers, or distance, or
angle and all of these things
that are part of the
informational field
of the object--
so you have
something that varies
that informational field.
And--
>>DAVID: What were you
testing with these devices?
What was the objective?
>>PETERSON: What the
objective was as you said,
I want a piece of information
from this particular item.
Now, you could take a blood
spot of a person, which
is typical in radionics.
And you put the blood spot
in a little brass drawer
or a little round brass cup.
And it hooks to a wire.
There's no electrical current
that is moving at all.
It's a optical
representation of something.
You say, OK, I'm going
to use this set up,
this drawing, this shape,
these type of connections
as a representation of
how well is the person.
>>DAVID: So if I had a blood
spot from someone, could I say,
is this person at risk of
getting cancer or diabetes,
that kind of thing?
>>PETERSON: You could
ask if they're at risk.
You could ask if
they have it, if they
have cancer or diabetes,
what kind, how much.
You can extract all information.
>>DAVID: Somebody would say--
who's not educated about this--
well, this is quack science.
And--
>>PETERSON: Oh, it's called
quack science every day.
And you can go on
the internet, read
all about the quack science.
The problem is,
the quack science
is 90% to 100% accurate.
>>DAVID: [LAUGHS] So there
were people over an established
period of time.
You said this started
with the guy who
was the head of medical science
at Stanford University, Abrams.
>>PETERSON: Right.
>>DAVID: So here we have
this figure, Pete, Abrams,
who obviously is very
controversial in terms
of making these discoveries
that fly completely
in the face of accepted
scientific inquiry.
And so therefore, people are
going to call him a quack.
They're going to say that
this is all nonsense.
Yet, the guy does
have a medical degree.
He does have a legitimate
professional background.
What are some of the results--
Let me just ask you this.
Were there people out
there, practitioners,
who did get very reliable
results using this technique?
>>PETERSON: He taught many, many
people to practice his thing.
In the very beginning,
Abrams used a method
of diagnosis, where he did
what he called succussion
to the body.
He would put his fingers
on part of the body,
and rap it, and
listen for the sound,
either with a
stethoscope or by ear.
And he could pick up sounds
that came from the body
based on structure underneath.
And he got to be very,
very good with that.
And that type of diagnosis
was being taught worldwide.
After a period of time,
he taught in England,
I know, and he
taught in Germany.
And he schooled in Germany.
He had a doctor's degree
from a school in Germany.
And then later on, because he
was using electronic parts,
these resistors, and he
would put them in series.
And one would go
from 1 to 10, and one
would go from 10 to 100, and
one would go from 100 to 1,000,
et cetera, et cetera.
And he ended up by
finding that there
were certain numbers you could
dial in and succuss the body.
And the body would
change its audio sound.
>>DAVID: As if there
was a healing going on.
>>PETERSON: As if there
was something happening.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>PETERSON: And then from that,
he learned to do diagnosis.
And then he learned
to take it backwards.
He would put those numbers
in and invert the numbers.
And by inverting the numbers,
he would then treat the person.
And the disease would go away
or would lessen considerably.
>>DAVID: Interesting.
>>PETERSON: And
so he taught that.
And that was taught
all over the world.
It's still a favored way
of diagnosis in Britain,
the British Radionics Society.
One time when I was teaching
some of my medicine in France,
there was a little store,
like an American 7-Eleven
in the back side of the
big hotel I stayed in.
And I'd walk down to what
appeared to be an alley.
It was a street, small
street, usually at night
and pick up some
snacks or something.
I did that one
afternoon in the daytime
and noticed across
the street, there
was a half of a building
called radiesthesia, which is
the French word for radionics.
So I went in and had an
unbelievable experience there
and found that this
had been taught
in France for as long as it
had been taught in the United
States, and then in
England, and then Germany,
where Abrams had influence.
>>DAVID: So how
does this translate
into the use of a
camera technology,
like we see with de la Warr?
I mean, up until
now, this sounds more
like a human
consciousness phenomenon.
And now, you're
saying that someone
was able to actually capture
real photographs of this.
Now, I haven't seen very many
de la Warr camera photos online.
But I saw a bunch of them at the
US Psychotronics Association,
and they are amazing.
>>PETERSON: They're
very amazing.
Many books have
been written on it.
Machines have been
written up in books.
This technology, this science,
wasn't really a science.
It was something that it
was a phenomena that people
could evoke, such as dowsing.
There have been dowsers.
I have a little collection
of Egyptian dowsing equipment
from the Middle
Kingdom of Egypt.
And they used it.
It was used to find
most of the wells
in the deserts of Africa,
the Sahara, and other deserts
of Africa and Arab deserts.
There was a gentleman who was
a scientist, a trained engineer
and scientist, and used dowsing
to locate these wells all
over the deserts back
in the '20s and '30s.
His name was Stephan Riess.
And there's a very plush valley
in California between San
Fernando Valley and the ocean.
And that's where Stephan Riess
lived on a mountain called
Sulphur Mountain.
And he said you can
always find artesian water
at the top of a mountain.
And at his ranch, which was
the top of the mountain,
they dug a couple of
2-foot-diameter holes
that shot water 20
feet out the top.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>PETERSON: And
they were artesian.
And then the people in the
valley there said, well,
it's a very dry valley.
Could you find
water in the valley?
And he went towards San Fernando
Valley and got near the top.
And there are four
4-foot-diameter wells
that pump water.
>>DAVID: Yeah, I remember
doing a show on dowsing.
I believe we have it here
on "Wisdom Teachings,"
and covering a guy named
Jacques Aymar-Vernay, who
was such a good dowser that
he could dowse out murders
and who had
committed the murder,
and was so good that they
actually got convictions off
of what he had done.
>>PETERSON: There
are many dowsers
that do that through the years.
The lady that I trained
from was written up
in "The Secret Life of
Plants" and other such books.
And so I went out, and
she gave three sets
of classes, one-week classes.
In the first class, a person
could go to a hospital,
get a blood sample on a
little piece of-- they used
like a blotter,
like you used to use
and when you used liquid ink.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>PETERSON: And she'd
take a very dry piece
of material, thick
cardboard, and they'd
put a blood spot on it.
And they'd put the person
down on the blood spot.
And then they would seal
it in a little envelope.
There are some
little tiny envelopes
they had that are used
for sealing stamps
in stamp collections.
And then they would put that in
a little manila envelope that
was maybe an inch by two.
And then they would put
that in a standard envelope.
And they'd all be
sealed, and they
would be given a name and a
number on each one of them.
The person who took
the sample didn't
know the person they were
getting the sample from.
They didn't know what
number the other person
had assigned-- each envelope
would be assigned a number.
And those would be kept
by various people, sealed,
all sealed.
And then they would
go to a laboratory.
This lady's name was
Frances Farrelly.
She ran a school for medical
lab technicians in Florida
for many years.
And then they would do an
analysis of this blood sample
and find a number of
different things from that.
And they would write that down.
But they would just do it from
a stack of random envelopes.
The outer envelope would
have no number on it.
And they used to take
random envelopes.
Then after all
that was done, they
would go back through,
open the envelopes,
and see how the radionic
diagnosis matched
the biochemical diagnosis.
And after a period of
time, they developed
a technique, which she taught.
And I know that
in this class, we
would have envelopes
that had been preceded
by numerous different
people, some of them
scientific organizations,
some of them colleges.
And so we would never know
where the sample originally
came from.
After the third day, we
were running about 98%
accuracy for everything.
>>DAVID: Oh, wow.
And how many people were
in the class roughly?
>>PETERSON: 12 people.
She always had 12
people in a class.
>>DAVID: Well, I
want to get back
to what I asked you before.
We kind of get off on dowsing.
But what is the method by which
the photograph is captured
when we're getting to the point
of actually taking photographs.
You say it's a phenomena.
>>PETERSON: They
take you witness.
They take a witness.
They can take a hair, a
blood spot, a piece of skin,
some epithelial cells,
now that they're
using that for
testing, DNA testing,
from a little scrape from
the inside of the mouth.
And they can take that witness.
And they put in the machine--
The machine is built
somewhat like a camera
like a reflex camera.
So they put it in the
optical path of the camera.
And then they put a film in
the camera, a plate film,
like a old-style
plate film camera.
Or some of the
new ones have used
Polaroid film, which I don't
know if that's still available
today.
I think it still
is for some things.
I use some in my
electronic equipment.
And you put that in.
And then you expose it
for a period of time.
Then you take it
out and develop it.
Now, in order for that
film to be developed,
something had to strike the
film to cause it to expose.
>>DAVID: Sure.
>>PETERSON: The thing
that was in focus
was the witness, the
hair of the person,
or a blood spot from the person.
And there were a couple of
mirrors in the device, one
a magnifying mirror.
And it would produce
a photograph.
And you could look
at it and compare it
with an X-ray in the beginning.
And it would be the same as the
X-ray, but far more accurate.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>PETERSON: An X-ray has
to be exposed properly.
How much tissue is
it going through?
How much more voltage of
X-ray do we need in order
to get a clear picture?
>>DAVID: I seem to remember
when I saw the USPA conference
description of de la Warr that
there was either one or two
coils of round metallic
wires around the witness
while it was in the optical
path, something like that.
>>PETERSON: In the
de la Warr camera,
they used that for a sensor.
In the Drown camera,
they just use optics.
>>DAVID: Oh.
>>PETERSON: Because
what happens is,
you're dealing here
with information
in a very different manner
than we've ever looked at it.
So anything that would
have the information
could then convey
the information.
And the person's mental
desire for the way the camera
worked, that's the
way it would work.
>>DAVID: I do remember
that at this particular Us
Psychotronics
Association Conference,
there was this sort of ongoing
conspiratorial whispering
about the idea that
the real agent at work
was de la Warr's female
assistant in the lab
and that the camera, without
her, didn't necessarily
work, that she
needed to be there,
that somehow she had
something to do with it.
>>PETERSON: Belief had
a lot to do with it.
Rupert Sheldrake found this
in his biology as well.
And it's what you
believe the camera would
do was what it would do.
It was all information.
That wasn't-- it wasn't
based on a chemical process.
You could use
chemical processes,
and they would do
different things
than they would normally do.
Or they would do the
same things depending
on the particular
person's knowledge,
training, desires, wishes.
And operators, some
operators weren't that good.
You had to learn to hold your
mind pretty much as a blank,
don't preconceive things.
And so you could say it
wasn't an exact science.
But overall, like
in remote viewing,
they get three or
four people's views
and then add those together.
And what happens is that
the false parts of it
tend to disappear
from the result,
and the true things
tend to conglomerate.
>>DAVID: Well, I
have had the chance
to speak at conferences
with Nancy Talbot, who's
a crop circle researcher.
Now, she showed me some really,
really amazing stuff, Pete.
I don't know if you've
ever seen this before.
But there is a
young man in Holland
who seems to know when a crop
circle is going to be made.
He can tell you when
it's going to be
made, where it will be made.
And not only that, but you can--
and Nancy told me this story.
You can take a
camera around the guy
and just start hitting the
exposure button over and over
again.
And he will throw
images onto the film.
And Nancy Talbot's
website has some examples
of ghosts that this
guy would throw
into the film that were very,
very shocking, in some cases,
quite scary.
>>PETERSON: There's
much, much work,
especially in England with
the British Radionics Society,
much work there.
There was a lady here who was
very, very famous for giving
diagnoses that were contrary
to the medical diagnoses
of the day and found to
be absolutely accurate.
Her name was Ruth Drown.
She was jailed for
doing this in LA.
And while she was jailed,
she was assassinated,
but the assassin
was never found.
And she was throwing havoc
in the medical community.
And there are
thousands of pictures
that are published that you
can get from various places.
Probably the US Psychotronic
Association Library has, you
know, much of that information.
Later on, there was
a man who obtained
one of her cameras, which were
made illegal, illegal devices,
because they would do things
that couldn't be explained.
>>DAVID: And the government
doesn't like that.
>>PETERSON: Well, the
government doesn't like that.
And various trade agencies
don't like that to have happen.
The medical people, they
want to own medicine,
and they don't want
new things really
to happen in it that
they don't understand.
And this is a science.
You can make it
exceedingly accurate.
The inaccuracies are
made by the operator.
I make devices that don't
require an operator,
but use the principals.
There was a man in Britain
by name a Darrell Butcher,
who made instruments that were
very, very similar to this.
He took a cribbage machine and
drew a picture of a backbone
and tailbone on the machine.
And he was a chiropractor
in the beginning.
And he used a stick
plate as a sensor,
as did many of the
radionic machines
that I've found that are very
accurate and can be trained.
Frances Farrelly
would do 12 people
in three different
classes every year.
And those people
would get 98 to 99%
accurate to being able to do
a diagnoses from a person.
In several instances,
they did a diagnosis
of an astronaut
that was in space
and found that it
was exactly right.
And they found where modern
science had made errors.
Most of the work that
was done this way
was absolutely accurate.
>>DAVID: So what do
you think is actually
happening when they take a
piece of a woman's wedding dress
as a witness and
then can actually
get a photo from her wedding,
back when it happened?
I mean, that would
involve, I guess,
time travel or something?
>>PETERSON: OK, I'm
basically a physicist.
If anything exists, somewhere,
there are some amount--
today, we use the
stem cell analysis.
We use DNA analysis now.
And that's perfectly
usable in court.
It's because there exists a
pattern, or something that
contains information,
from which you
can extract that information.
And it's so good that it can
be used as evidence in court.
There are many ways to do that.
There is the standard
scientific method,
using spectrum analyzers,
and using microscopes,
and using chemical
stains and staining,
electrophoresis, which is a
chemical electronic process,
very accurate.
But there are other things
that exist in nature
that we haven't
really studied yet,
but have been used off
and on through centuries
and centuries.
And there are other ways of
extracting this information.
An example is dowsing.
There are dowsers that are used,
consistently hired, full-time,
paid salaries by the year,
that are used by auto companies
to determine the color
that their cars should
be to get more sales.
>>DAVID: [LAUGHS]
>>PETERSON: And they work.
There are people that dowse
for police departments, that
dowse where a kidnapped
person is being held.
There as a way of determining
what the accuracy for random,
you know, just random
selection should be.
And these people
are always many,
many times more than that
random selection, the good ones,
the ones that are vetted
out by actually coming up
with evidence.
>>DAVID: So if this
technology could
be removed from
suppression, then we
have a truly marvelous
diagnostic tool.
I've studied this
myself extensively.
It is an amazing science.
And I hope that by educating
us and bringing out an expert
like Dr. Peterson that we can
help to ease that suppression
and bring this technology
out to a world that
needs this type of ability.
And we are actually
still just getting
started with some of
the amazing discoveries
that Dr. Peterson made
based on this technology.
But that's coming up
in another episode.
I'm your host, David Wilcock,
here with Dr. Pete Peterson.
And we thank you for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]